Why hive when MR is already there?
How to create a table?
OLTP vs OLAP
Where hive tables stores their data?
Internal vs External tables
Write word count program in hive.
Create a hive table with all available complex data types available in hive and write a query to fetch data from this table.
Why no reducers when running select * on hive table ?
How do you create a table similar to a existing hive table?
Insert vs insert override.
What is metastore in hive?
Does hive supports select * from dual?
What is the hive warehouse directory?
Can we change location of a hive table?
OrderBy vs SortBy
ClusterBy vs DistributeBy
What is SkewedBy?
What is Partitioning?
Static vs dynamic partitioning.How to enable dyanamic partitioning?
What is Bucketing?How it works?
Create a table with partitioning and bucketing?
Can we create partition inside partition?
Can we create a buckets inside partitions?
How to insert data in bucketed table.
How do you decide the number of buckets.
What is the criteria to decide partitioning and bucketing column.
On Which column you have partitioned your tables in your current project and Why?
What happens when you add,drop a partition of a existing partitioned table.
What are ACID operations? Does hive supports ACID operations.
What all file formats you have used?
Row formats vs Columnar format.
AVRO vs ORC vs Parquet
Why ORC works faster with Hive? How is indexing in ORC.
What engine are you using with Hive and how is it better than MR.
What are SERDE in hive.
What are different compressions techniques have you used? SNAPPY vs LZO vs ZLIB
How to change a column type in hive table?
What are UDF,UDAF in hive?
What all UDF have you used.
What is Explode function in hive? Explode VS Lateral view explode
How to write a custom UDF.
What are the various techniques have you used to optimize hive Query.
Write a hive query to join 2 tables(inner,left outer,right outer,full outer)
What is Map side join.
What is Sortmerge join
What is Vectorization,CBO and indexing in 
